# API Documentation Guide

**Source:** https://open.seatalk.io/docs/api-development-guide

SeaTalk Open Platform provides a range of APIs to empower your app development. This document introduces the basic terms & definitions, the structure of an API doc, API authentication, rate limits and error handling. 

While invoking SeaTalk Open APIs, please send requests to https://openapi.seatalk.io (https://openapi.seatalk.io) based on the HTTPS protocol, JSON data structure, and UTF-8 encoding.

For a comprehensive list of server APIs currently provided, see Overview of Server APIs (/docs/overview-server-apis).

## Terms & Definitions

| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| App ID | - A unique identifier that is generated by SeaTalk Open Platform when an app is created. - App ID is bound to your organization and used for app authentication in all API requests. You can view the app_id on the Basic Info page of your app. |
| App Secret | - A unique credential that is generated by SeaTalk Open Platform when an app is created. - App Secret is used to obtain an access_token for your app together with the app_id. As an app developer, you can re-generate a new app_secret anytime but do remember to update your app when a new app secret is generated. You can view the app_secret on the Basic Info page of your app. |
| Access Token | - A temporary random identifier that is generated by SeaTalk Open Platform that serves as a security credential of your app when it needs to call Server APIs. SeaTalk Open Platform will verify the access token passed in for each API request to ensure the caller is indeed your app. - An access_token will expire after 7200 seconds, so you should maintain a cache mechanism to store and refresh the access_token during API requests. |

## API Document Introduction

```
API Name: ......
API Description: ......
Request Method: GET/POST (HTTPS)
End Point: https://openapi.seatalk.io/...

Request Parameter
- Header
- Body
- Request Sample

Response Parameter
- Result Fields
- Response Sample
```

- Request Method - The standard way to send a request to a particular API. All requests should be based on the HTTPS protocol.

- End Point - The location of the API.

- Request Parameter - The description and sample of the request header and parameters.

- Response Parameter - The description and sample of the response fields.

## Authentication

All API requests will be verified by SeaTalk Open Platform based on a valid `access_token` exchanged (/docs/get-app-access-token) with `app_id` and `app_secret`.

An `access_token` will be expired after 7200 seconds. To ensure your app can send requests successfully, please maintain a local cache mechanism in your app to store and refresh the access token.

## API Rate Limit

With a valid `access_token`, an app can request/update organization-related data and send messages to a specific group(s) or user(s) via various APIs provided. You can refer to different API categories to know more about what server APIs are available.

To prevent abnormal request loads in the SeaTalk server, SeaTalk Open Platform defines maximum API request limits for specific API methods. When a limit is exceeded, an error code will be returned for you to troubleshoot.

Most of the server APIs are limited to 1000 requests per minute under one app ID. However, there are 5 exceptions:

- Get Access token API is limited to 600 requests per hour.

- Send Message to a Bot User API is limited to 300 requests per minute.

- Send Message to Group Chat API, Get Group Info API and Get Chat History API are limited to 100 requests per minute.

## Error Handling

### API Error Code

Please refer to SeaTalk Open API Error Code (/docs/reference_server-api-error-code) for a comprehensive list of server API error codes, what they mean and how to resolve them.

### Development Conventions

#### Transient Network Error

- DNS resolution error/timeout: Request is not delivered to the server-side. The client should retry.

- Connection error/timeout: Request is not delivered to the server-side. The client should retry.

- Read timeout, I/O timeout: Request may or may not be delivered to the server-side. The client should retry only if API is idempotent or side effect of duplication request is acceptable.

#### HTTP 5xx

- 500: Request is aborted due to unexpected server errors (e.g, internal database fault). The client can retry if API is idempotent or the side effect of duplication request is acceptable.

- 502/503: Service is down. The client should retry later.

- 504: Service is overloaded. The client can retry if API is idempotent or the side effect of duplication request is acceptable.

#### HTTP 4xx

- 400: Request format is unrecognized or missing mandatory parameters. The client should investigate the root cause and fix it before retrying. Check the API doc for the correct request format.

- 403: Request is not authorized (e.g, violation of IP whitelisting, permission, or scope). The client should investigate the root cause and fix it before retrying.

#### HTTP 200

The request is received by the server and a JSON body is returned in response to indicate the result.

- Code is 0: the result is successful.

- Code is not 0: the result is not successful. You can refer to the Error Codes for the API-specific reasons and how to resolve the issue.